---
layout:     post
title:      An introduction to use Tianhe-2 supercomputer overseas
subtitle:   Tech Diary
date:       2017-12-09
author:     Vavrines
header-img: img/flower.jpg
catalog: true
tags:
- Tech
---

## Intro
分享一些在香港使用广州天河2号超算时遇到的一些问题和解决的经验。
因为最初用于组内的交流，就直接用英文写成。

To share some knowledge and experience to use Tianhe-2 supercomputer in Hong Kong.

## VPN

First, log in the Tianhe-2 vpn system with the following information.

> Sever address: 202.14.80.170

> Port: 4433

> Username: usr

> Password: passwd

## SSH

Land the computing node with the secret key file.

> Sever address: 172.16.22.11

> Port: 22

> Username: usr

> Secret key file: key

For Windows: use Xshell or other applications, and select logging on with key file.

For Mac/Linux: 

1. change the access authority of the key file

   `chmod 400 <key>`

2. add the following information into /etc/ssh/ssh_config

   `StrictHostKeyChecking no`

   `UserKnownHostFile /dev/null`

3. use the command

   `ssh -i <key> username@hostaddress`

## Environmental configuration

After the land, use

`ssh ln41` 

and we can log on the computation node 

`[usr@ln41%tianhe2-G ~]$`

After that, input the command

`source /HOME/intel/composer_xe_2013_sp1.2.144/bin/compilervars.sh intel64`

`export INTEL_LICENSE_FILE=$INTEL_LICENSE_FILE:/HOME/intel/licenses`

And we can use the intel fortran compiler now.

## Script

After the compiling, we can use the *yhrun* command to run the fortran program on a single node with

`yhrun -N 1 -n 1 -c <number of cores> -p MEM_3TB <program>`

Alternatively, to use the command *yhbatch*, a script is in need with the following format

`#! /bin/bash`

`yhrun -N 1 -n 1 -c <number of cores> -p MEM_3TB <program>`

`export OMP_NUM_THREADS=<number of cores>`

In this section, *number of cores* is the cores we want to use in the OPENMP parallel program, and *program* denotes the executable file.

## Intel Fortran Library

Compared with normal desktops or laptops with the address */opt/intel/*, now the intel complier is at */HOME/intel*, with the same data structure.

For example, if we want to use the fast Fourier transformation code in mkl library, we can add the following command in the F90 file.

`include '/HOME/intel/composer_xe_2013_sp1.2.144/mkl/include/fftw/fftw3.f'`
